docs/src/main/asciidoc/getting-started-overview.adoc, before:

:imagesdir: ./images

**Plexus Interop** project defines an open standard for desktop application interoperability and provides reference
implementation of this standard. It formalizes connections between applications within a single user session on client
desktop through a central broker.

Who can benefit from such standard? The target audience are traders and other professional financial users who often have
many applications from different vendors running simultaneously on their desktops, each with a lots of data. They need
to react quickly on data changes, so it's essential to combine the apps into workflows to quickly pass context between
them and launch new app instances with pre-populated context in a matter of milliseconds.

The main goal of Plexus Interop is to enable development of such extensible workflows connecting independent apps developed
in different technologies (.NET, Web, Java, Python, etc.) and passing context (structured data objects) between those apps.

There are many application containers in the market which already provide capabilites of building workflows between apps running
in the same container, and often vendors have their own containers to run their applications. Plexus Interop instead not
bound to any container or technology. It separates interoperability from the container, which provides notable advantages:
different containers can be leveraged in the same workflow, launched applications residing outside of containers can
participate in interop activities.

Technically speaking, Plexus Interop is a metadata-centric language-agnostic desktop app-to-app interoperability framework
with extensible model for launching new instances of desktop applications on demand. Its extensibility is based on open
standards which are essential parts of the project.

Plexus Interop architecture is based around central broker providing hub-and-spoke connectivity between apps and brokering
strongly-typed RPC-style calls between them. Broker has a connection to Application Lifecycle Manager which is capable
of creating new instances of the apps based on the their runtime-metadata (e.g. container type, launch command,
command line parameters) defined in a registry.

image::architecture.png[Key components and high level architecture]

Commit message:

First section changed according to corrections + copied into readme.md

docs/src/main/asciidoc/getting-started-overview.adoc, after:

:imagesdir: ./images

The **Plexus Interop** project aims to define an open standard for desktop application interoperability and provides
reference implementation of this standard. It formalizes connections between applications within a single user session
on client desktop through a central broker.

The main goal is to enable development of extensible workflows connecting independent apps developed by different
organizations in different technologies (.NET, Web, Java, Python, etc.) by passing relevant context  (structured
data objects) between those apps.

Although the industry is moving towards containerized desktop applications, Plexus Interop recognizes that much
of the application landscape is not yet tied to containers and is architecturally agnostic of container implementation.
Separating interoperability from the container provides notable advantages: different containers can be leveraged in
the same workflow, and launched applications residing outside of containers can participate in interop activities.

Technically speaking, Plexus Interop is a metadata-centric language-agnostic desktop app-to-app interoperability
framework with an extensible model for launching new instances of desktop applications on demand. Its extensibility
is based on open standards which are essential parts of the project.  The architecture is based around central broker
providing hub-and-spoke connectivity between apps and brokering strongly-typed RPC-style calls between them. The broker
has a connection to an Application Lifecycle Manager (or Launcher) which is capable of creating new instances of apps
based on the their runtime-metadata (e.g. container type, launch command, command line parameters) defined in a registry.

image::architecture.png[Key components and high level architecture]
